## Plant-desease-detection-using-machine-learning

# Description
This competition aims to predict plant properties - so called plant traits - from citizen science plant photographs. Why are plant traits currently so relevant? Plant traits are plant properties that are used to describe how plants function how they interact with the environment. For instance, the trait of plant canopy height indicates how good a plant is at overshadowing its neightbors in the competition for sun light. Robust leaves (indicated by the leaf mass pear leaf area) indicate that plants optimize towards extreme conditions, such as heavy winds or droughts. Yet, environmental conditions are not static. Due to global change, the biosphere is being transformed at accelerating pace. Especially climate change is assumed to drastically impact the functioning of the ecosystems. This includes several processes, e.g. adaptions of plants and their traits to new conditions or even a altered plant species distribution with a resulting modification of the distribution of plant traits. However, we can hardly project on a global scale how plant traits and as such entire ecosystems will react to climate change because we do not have sufficient data on plant traits.

A data treasure in this regard may be the growing availability of citizen science photographs. Thousands of citizens around the globe photograph plants with species identification apps (examples are iNaturalist or Pl@ntNet). The species are identified using AI algorithms, and the prediction, photograph, and geolocation are curated in open databases. There are already more than 20 million plant photographs available, covering all ecosystem types and continents.
